All right so in this video we're going to take a look at the single post page K so right now we have
this roll of post from our site but that's it.
We can't we can't click on it and go to the individual post where we would have our comments and things
like that.
All right so we're going to go ahead and do that.
Let's go to index peech P and we're going to make the title clickable.
OK we're going to add a link to the title so let's go into this H-3 right here.
And that's an 8 Hagg
a wrap that around the title
and what we're going to put in here is very simple we're going to say peached P the permalink.
All right.
And let's save it reload.
Now you see we have a link on the titles if I click that it takes us to that specific post.
If we click on this one that takes us to that post.
All right.
Now I just want to add a little bit of style here I don't like the color of the links.
I also want to make this bold and separate these a little bit.
All right so it's good to wrap each post in its own div.
So where we have this while right under it will say did actually put in an article
on that there that there.
And then what's this.
Say class equals post.
All right.
And then in our style sheet let's have
that and say color will be just the same as the text.
All right.
And then we can say Article Daut post.
And let's just add a border to the bottom
case.
Now they should have a border and that's good.
OK now we have the title title has a link but we usually see some kind of read more button as well.
So let's go ahead and add that all we have to do is just copy that.
Put that right there.
Is this the class of foughten.
And then that's going on.
What am I doing.
We don't want to do that.
We just want to put the text here so we'll say Read more.
But I do want to give this a class Button.
All right so now we should have a link that goes there as well.
And so in here we'll say Article don't post a.
And actually it's going to be a door button.
And then what I want to do is just add a background
color will be white and padding.
It's also add margin for them
.
OK.
We're going to have to put in the overflow here and say overflow.
Hidden
in Lets make this button we're going to make this display as a block as an inline block
Cale's take the text decoration off as well.
OK so we can now go to the single page.
Now in the single page we don't want this to be a link.
And that's that's kind of silly.
So we want to change that.
And there's going to be other things we want we're going to want to comment form as well.
So we need to have a special page for single post so what we can do is create a new file in our theme
and we're going to just call it single dot ph p.
All right.
And let's just say test.
So if we go back here now and reload we get test only on that if we go back to our main web site our
main post role here.
It's fine but if we go to a single page we get that because it's automatically looking at this file
.
So what we can do is use index ph P we can use that code as a starting point.
If we post that in there and say it's going to go back to how it was now we can change whatever we want
here and it will only take effect on the single page so we can get rid of the link
k we can get rid of the read more we're obviously not going to want that.
OK so now we have a single page.
Let's make that matter.
This right here I just want to add a little bit of style to that.
Actually let's grab this
.
There we go.
OK.
Actually I want some padding on the bottom of the post
not trying to go nuts with the styling because like I said I just want you guys to kind of learn the
code rather than how to create a great design.
Will be getting into that later.
So what I want to do next is I want to show you how to add an image to the post a featured image.
Now if we go to the form to adipocytes and you look on the right side you don't see a featured image
box which you may have seen in other WordPress themes or other WordPress Web sites.
The reason for that is we didn't include that functionality.
So what we need to do is go into our theme folder and we're going to create a file and we're going to
save it as functions dot Ph.
D.
OK and this is where we can put custom functions where we can we can hook into certain parts of the
code we can register widgets and do all that or basically anything dynamic.
So what we're going to do here is we're going to create a set up function.
Ok so it's a function simple themes set up and you can call this whatever you like actually.
And in here it's a feature of the image support.
OK so we want to use a function called add themes support
and then we want to pass into here post
thumbnails.
All right.
Now this function isn't going to run.
If we leave it like this what we need to do is we need to use add action.
And then there's certain hooks that we can hook into and run this function.
So the one that we want is called after a set up theme.
OK so we're going to put that in here after a set up theme.
And then the second parameter will be the name of this function.
All right.
So that'll run or save it and now if we go back and reload this page now you'll see down at the bottom
we have a featured image box.
All right.
So if we click that we can go ahead and upload files.
And let's see.
You should have some blog images in your program files and then choose blog one and we're going to save
that and you can see it's down here and we can update now if we go to the front end and reload.
We're not going to see it yet because we didn't add it to our index page file.
OK so let's go to index PGE and you don't have to show it in index you could just show it in single
if you want but usually you want you want it to show on both pages.
So in index Pietsch let's just put it right below the metta Larry and it's not going to look too great
at first but we'll fix that later on.
So let's go right under the method and what we want to do is check to see if there is an image first
.
OK so we can use the if statement
And what we're going to do is we can say if has post thumbnail.
OK.
So if there is a thumbnail then let's create a div we'll give it a class of post Thum now
and in here we just want to say ph P to the post thumbnail
save it go back reload and there it is.
Now it looks a little out of whack because it's not it's not it's not reaching 100 percent across the
page but we're actually going to put a sidebar in here and a little bit when we get to the widgets so
it will look a lot better when we do that.
All right.
But I am going to add a width of 100 percent in the CSSA case so we have this post this class post thumbnails
so let's go into our style sheet and we'll add that.
So the image we want with to be 100 percent and then lets do height auto.
All right so now it reaches across the whole page and I know that's really big.
But like I said we'll get a sidebar in here and it will it will shrink that up a little bit.
All right.
Now we also want the image on this page.
This is the single post page.
So we're going to copy this
and go into single dog pee pee and put it in the same place right under the matter.
All right so now we get it on the single page as well.
Now the last thing I want to do in this video is Notice that in these posts on the index page it shows
the whole it shows all the content so if this was really long it would show right here and we don't
want that we want just a piece of the content to show.
So what we can do is instead of saying let's go to index P and instead of saying the content we can
actually say that excerpt.
All right.
And what that'll do is it'll cut the content too.
I think it's 55 55 words.
All right.
And you can actually customize that and make it as long or short as you want and that's actually really
easy we can go into functions ph P and create a custom function.
Ok so we'll just say set
X serve Lanc.
Oh I forgot to put the word function
and all we need to do here is just return a number.
So let's say we wanted it to be 25 times and then what we can do is instead of an action we're going
to say add filter because an action is usually used to add something or create something add filter
is usually used to change something.
So the filter we want to hook into here is called excerpt length.
OK.
And then we just want to put in the name of our function which is set up
set excerpt like.
And now if we go back and reload now you can see it's only 25 words long.
All right.
I actually want it a little longer let's say 60 K so I really didn't need to do that but I just wanted
to show you that that's possible.
All right so we have our index page set up we have our single post page set up.
Aside from the comments we're going to do that a little later but in the next video I'm going to show
you how we can create a menu and we can start dealing with pages as well as posts.